README.md, before:

# sort-images-with-ollama/README.md

# Sort Images with Ollama

This project is designed to classify and sort images into different categories using a Python script and the Ollama model. The script processes images located in the `images` directory and sorts them into three categories: screenshots, bad quality, and okay.

## Project Structure

```
sort-images-with-ollama
├── .devcontainer
│   ├── devcontainer.json
│   └── Dockerfile
├── images
├── sort-images.py
└── README.md
```

## Setup Instructions

1. **Clone the Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd sort-images-with-ollama
   ```

2. **Open in Development Container**
   - Open the project in Visual Studio Code.
   - Use the command palette (Ctrl+Shift+P) and select `Remote-Containers: Reopen in Container`.

3. **Install Dependencies**
   - The development container will automatically install the required Python dependencies specified in the `Dockerfile`.

## Configuration

This project uses a `.env` file for configuration. To get started:

1.  Copy the example configuration file:
    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```
2.  Customize the values in the `.env` file as needed. The available variables are:
    *   `OLLAMA_HOST`: The URL of the Ollama API. Defaults to `http://host.docker.internal:11434`.
    *   `INPUT_FOLDER`: The directory where images to be sorted are located. Defaults to `images`.
    *   `BAD_QUALITY_FOLDER_NAME`: The name of the folder to store bad quality images. Defaults to `bad_quality`.
    *   `OK_QUALITY_FOLDER_NAME`: The name of the folder to store good quality images. Defaults to `ok`.
    *   `MODEL_NAME`: The name of the Ollama model to use for image classification. Defaults to `gemma3:4b`.

## Usage

1. Place the images you want to classify in the `images` directory.
2. Run the script:
   ```bash
   python sort-images.py
   ```
3. The images will be sorted into the following folders:
   - `images/screenshots` for screenshots
   - `images/bad_quality` for images classified as bad quality
   - `images/ok` for images classified as okay

## Contributing

Feel free to submit issues or pull requests if you have suggestions or improvements for the project.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Update README.md to include local installation instructions and enhance troubleshooting section

README.md, after:

# Sort Images with Ollama

This project is designed to classify and sort images into different categories using a Python script and the Ollama model. The script processes images located in the `images` directory and sorts them into three categories: screenshots, bad quality, and okay.

## Project Structure

```
sort-images-with-ollama
├── .devcontainer
│   ├── devcontainer.json
│   └── Dockerfile
├── images
├── sort-images.py
└── README.md
```

## Setup Instructions

1. **Clone the Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd sort-images-with-ollama
   ```

2. **Open in Development Container**
   - Open the project in Visual Studio Code.
   - Use the command palette (Ctrl+Shift+P) and select `Remote-Containers: Reopen in Container`.

3. **Install Dependencies**
   - The development container will automatically install the required Python dependencies specified in the `Dockerfile`.
   - If running locally, install dependencies with:
     ```bash
     pip install -r requirements.txt
     ```

4. **Set Up Ollama LLM**
   - Download and start the Ollama LLM server as described in the [Ollama documentation](https://ollama.com/).
   - Ensure the server is running and accessible at the URL specified in your `.env` file.

## Configuration

This project uses a `.env` file for configuration. To get started:

1.  Copy the example configuration file:
    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```
2.  Customize the values in the `.env` file as needed. The available variables are:
    *   `OLLAMA_HOST`: The URL of the Ollama API. Defaults to `http://host.docker.internal:11434`.
    *   `INPUT_FOLDER`: The directory where images to be sorted are located. Defaults to `images`.
    *   `BAD_QUALITY_FOLDER_NAME`: The name of the folder to store bad quality images. Defaults to `bad_quality`.
    *   `OK_QUALITY_FOLDER_NAME`: The name of the folder to store good quality images. Defaults to `ok`.
    *   `MODEL_NAME`: The name of the Ollama model to use for image classification. Defaults to `gemma3:4b`.

## Usage

1. Place the images you want to classify in the `images` directory.
2. Run the script:
   ```bash
   python sort-images.py
   ```
3. The images will be sorted into the following folders:
   - `images/screenshots` for screenshots
   - `images/bad_quality` for images classified as bad quality
   - `images/ok` for images classified as okay

## Customization

- You can modify the prompts sent to the LLM and adjust model parameters in the code (see `llm_utils.py` or similar files).

## Troubleshooting

- If the script cannot connect to the LLM, ensure the Ollama server is running and the `OLLAMA_HOST` value in your `.env` file is correct.
- Check the terminal output for error messages.

## Contributing

Feel free to submit issues or pull requests if you have suggestions or improvements for the project.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
